---
title: Namespace
author: Victor Teo
orderHint: 1
---

import PrevNext from '../../../../../components/PrevNext'

# Namespace

A namespace is a declarative region that provides a scope to the identifiers 
and contents. Namespace is block level element. Different files can have the
same namespace declared.

Namespace looks like this in schema:

```teo showLineNumbers {7-13}
model User {
    @id @autoIncrement @readonly
    id: Int
    email: String
}

namespace admin {
    model User {
        @id @autoIncrement @readonly
        id: Int
        email: String
    }
}
```

In this piece of schema, `User` and `admin.User` are two different models.

## Preventing name conflicts

If two different models share the same name in any reason, namespace can be 
used to prevent name conflicts. In the future, when packages are supported by
Teo, each package must declare a unique namespace to wrap its contents 
including [models](/concepts/components/teo-schema/model), 
[enums](/concepts/components/teo-schema/enum) and 
[pipeline items](/concepts/components/teo-schema/pipeline#pipeline-item).

## URL path

Each namespace has different namespace prefixes in request URLs. To access APIs
for `User` in previous code snippet, post to `/User/{handlerName}`, to access 
APIs for `admin.User`, post to `/admin/User/{handlerName}`.

## Connector inheritance

Teo supports multiple databases. Each namespace can have zero or one 
[connector](/concepts/components/teo-schema/connector). If a namespace doesn't 
have a database `connector` defined, the one from the parent namespace is 
inherited. Teo can be used without any database connections. When used without
namespaces, [model](/concepts/components/teo-schema/model) definitions are not 
available.

## Main namespace

The root level namespace, although without any namespace declarations, is the 
main namespace. If developer doesn't declare any namespaces in the schema 
files, every element is defined in the main namespace. In the previous code,
the outer level `User` is defined in the main namespace.

## `std` namespace

The standard library of Teo resides in the `std` namespace. This namespace has
a special resolving rule that any identifier doesn't exist in the namespace 
tree will be finally resolved in the `std` namespace. That is, everything from
this core library namespace doesn't need to be prefixed. In the previous 
code snippet, the decorators `@id`, `@readonly` and `@autoIncrement` are from
the `std` namespace and defined by the core library.

## Reserved namespace names

The name `main` and `std` are reserved. `main` is for the outer most level 
namespace, aka user's main namespace. `std` is the name of the namespace where 
core library is in. Any other names are allowed as long as it doesn't conflict
with other [constants](/concepts/components/teo-schema/constant), 
[models](/concepts/components/teo-schema/model), 
[enums](/concepts/components/teo-schema/enum), 
[interfaces](/concepts/components/teo-schema/interface) and 
[configs](/concepts/components/teo-schema/cofnig-block).

## Why namespace?

Teo request handlers are accessible by HTTP requests, and Teo models represent
a table or collection in the namespace. The traditional Node.js and Python way
of importing can solve name conflicts for constants and variables. It cannot 
solve handler URL and database table name problem. That's why we decide to use
this C++ or TypeScript style namespace.

<PrevNext />
